<!--[[USE_LAYOUT_generic.htm]]-->

## 9/21/24 - osu lazer

---

osu lazer is overall pretty cool. i wanted to share my opinions on it so! here!!

There are a lot of things lazer does better than osu and i would really want to switch to it - things like [slider releases being timed differently](https://youtu.be/SlWKKA-ltZY?si=Od_aPGwyGdVIp4hA) now is really cool in my opinion!!!! i think it makes the game a lot more enjoyable and avoids the feeling of your misses being the game's fault. but there is one thing i really REALLY hate about lazer. sliderhead accuracy

if you play osu and somehow dont know basically sliderhead accuracy in lazer has been changed so that now it's the same as a normal hitcircle. so when before, if you clicked on a slider, as long as it wasnt a miss it would be a hit300. but now, sliderheads also have timing and depending on your accuracy you can get hit100s and 50s as well.

### why is this so bad

i cant find this now but i swear somewhere peppy said sliderhead timing being different from normal hitcircles was originally an accident. but that doesn't mean it should be fixed. for the all of osu's existences mappers have made their maps with sliderhead accuracy in mind. sliders might often be used in breaks or more relaxed sections in maps, which is something i really love. the idea of there being a time where as long as i hit the slider, ill get 300 is really cool!!!! like. a feeling of safety and consistency!!!! and consistency is something thats incredibly important to me

on higher level maps where hit timing is lower (which i cant play bc i suck ass but i have an opinion nevertheless even though its prob wrong) mappers might want to add a break period or a time where you can rest which used to be possible using sliders! but! now! it is not! which sucks!! and so many old maps are. i wouldnt say ruined but. still kinda sucks

also maps with more inconsistent timing or changes in bpm suck now because sliders used to be a good way to transitions between sections to make sure the player doesnt mess up but now that doesnt work

also vinxis left because of it. their [profile](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4323406) explains the problems with sliderhead acc much better than i did imo because they are actually a good player and mapper

### other things i dislike about lazer

ok ok i get that everyone hates the softening filter effect but i always play with it and it isn't in lazer. also the ui is different which isnt necessarily bad just new and different. overall the ui is better imo but getting used to it might take a while

another thing i dislike is having to hold things. like when you go to download some beatmaps its set to featured artists. and to disable that you have to hold a button for a few seconds. and when you want to exit a map. you have to hold escape for a few second. also somehow pressing escape to view results when the map ends feels less satisfying now.

### things that are good about lazer

there are a LOT. as i said at the start i think overall lazer is better than stable. quick list of a few things bc i am lazy


- new ui (yes i put that as a complaint but thats just bc getting used to new things is difficult. overall it is better)
- i actually like the new logo ngl
- slider release timing
- more mods!!!!
- lower latency
- linux and mobile support!!
- new curve types in editor
- better search (imo. like it is pretty cool that you can disable converted maps for mania. that is prob thing in stable too but idk how. so at least more intuitive?)
- builtin tablet driver. yes it sucks but its still pretty cool that its there even if nearly no one will use it
- easier to adjust mania scroll speed. imo
- different renderers
- in-game beatmap listings
- actually basically the entire website is inside the game which is cool af
- daily challenge i havent played it bc while messing around in wsl i accidentally rm -rfed away half my C drive including lazer and was too lazy to reinstall it after. but still sounds pretty cool
- prob more but not that im thinking of atm :3

thank you for reading!!
