## 9/23/24 - redesigning my website
ranting about personal problems :3
---
i don't like the current layout of my website

i've been wanting to redesign it since i made it, but i still havent done anything

### why

the first and most obvious reason is i dont know what i want my website to look like. that makes it difficult to redesign, when, well. you dont have a design. but there's also other things

i don't want to redesign it because that would involve rewriting a lot - and if i'm rewriting it anyways, why not fix everything else wrong while i'm at it? the problem with that though, is i'm afraid of doing something wrong, and having to rewrite things again. this isn't just a problem with my website - this is a problem with literally everything i do

knowing i might do something wrong and have to redo it stops me from doing a lot of things - but at the same time, i'm constantly rewriting everything, and that's another problem. Ive noticed i tend to give up on projects if i choose to rewrite them, but i end up wanting to rewrite almost every project i've ever made.

i don't want this website to end up like all the other stuff ive done so i'm afraid of redesigning - it feels like i wont finish the design and stop working on the website entirely

another thing is my obsession with backwards compatibility. i think i talked about this a bit in my first blog post

### nobody's using chrome 1

i'm not entirely sure why i try to go so far back with backwards compatibility, but now i think it's time i stop. backwards compatibility is still really important to me, having the same experience on every browser, but it's also very limiting - i've noticed myself writing a lot more boilerplate and especially layouts are much more difficult, because old css sucks ass.

i think i'm going to abandon chrome 1 for now.

### plan

i still want to redo everything without giving up so. ive set a goal to finish a redesign within 1 week from now.

here is my plan


1. day 1. choose how im going to store pages - use a static site generator? do it the way im doing now, with URI hashes? just copy paste the layout for every single page??? switch to markdown for page contents?
1. day 2. remove all layout, probably on a separate wip page and implement my choice from day 1
1. day 3. choose an aesthetic and color pallette for my website :3
1. day 4. sketching out the design on my ipad
1. day 5. finalize design
1. day 6. actually implement the design into my page, with modern css and js
1. day 7. make sure everything is mobile friendly and pages are responsive!!!!
1. after... start making everything backwards compatible with chrome 1 - whatever i cant make compatible, make it so that the page doesnt break loading it in an older browser

i will be posting updates in a separate blog post or changelog!! maybe here actually idk.

tysm for reading!!!!!!
